Add Diagram (#108)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: interface-elements-for-web/articles/diagram/first-look-at-the-diagram.md

---
title: First Look at the Diagram
author: Svetlana Nikulina
---
# First Look at the Diagram

![Tools](../../images/diagram-tools.png)

## Diagram Tools

> - The **History** toolbar allows you to undo and redo actions. On mobile devises, the toolbar also displays the **Show Toolbox** button that shows/hides the **Toolbox**.

Author: ```suggestion
- The **History** toolbar contains **Undo** and **Redo** commands that allow you to undo and redo actions. On mobile devises, the toolbar also displays the **Show Toolbox** button that shows/hides the **Toolbox**.

```

    ![Show Toolbox Button](../../images/diagram-history-and-toolbox-button.png)

- The **Toolbox** allows you to add shapes to your chart. Select the **View** > **Settings** > **Show Toolbox** command to switch the **Toolbox** visibility. On mobile devises, the **Show Toolbox** button is additionally displayed in the **History** toolbar.

> - The **Properties** toolbar allows you to [customize shape and connector style settings](create-a-new-chart.md#customize-shape-and-connector-style-settings), change the [chart layout](chart-layout.md), and specify [page settings](page-and-view-settings.md). Click the **Properties** button to show and hide the toolbar.

Author: Updated:
The **Properties** toolbar allows you to customize shape and connector style settings, change the chart layout, and specify page settings. Click the **Properties** button to display the toolbar.

> - The **View** toolbar contains commands related to **Diagram**'s [view settings](page-and-view-settings.md).

Reviewer: "to **Diagram**'s" the? a?

> - The **Context Toolbox** allows you to [create a shape at the end of a connector](work-with-chart-elements.md#create-a-shape-via-the-context-toolbox) in one click.

Reviewer: Again, I'm not sure how "the **Context Toolbox** allows you to" do something

Reviewer: in one click?

Author: Updated:
You can use the Context Toolbox to create a shape at the end of a connector.

> - The **Context Toolbox** appears when you draw a connector from a shape and release it without it being connected to another shape. Click a shape to create it at the end of the connector. Note, this toolbox can contain a reduced set of shapes. See the **Toolbox** for the full list of available shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Context Toolbox** appears when you draw a connector from a shape and release it without connecting it to another shape. Click a shape to create it at the end of the connector. This toolbox can contain a reduced set of shapes. See the **Toolbox** for the full list of available shapes.

```

Reviewer: Why do you add "Note, this toolbox can contain a reduced set of shapes. See the **Toolbox** for the full list of available shapes"?

    ![Context Toolbox](../../images/diagram-context-toolbox.png)

> - The **Context Menu** appears when you right-click a chart element(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Context Menu** appears when you right-click chart elements.

```

    ![Context Menu](../../images/diagram-context-menu.png)

>     On mobile devises tap a chart element to display the **Context Menu**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    On mobile devises, tap a chart element to display the **Context Menu**. 

```
